---
layout: story
title: The Bosphorus Cruise
permalink: /stories/the-bosphorus-cruise/
date: 2015-07-28
pubdate: 2015-10-31
description: A trip between two continents
cover: DSCF6564
imgdir: bosphorus
camera: Photos taken with a Fuji X100S
location: Istanbul, Turkey
---

I step off the tram at Eminönü station, and I find myself thrown into the the riotous scene of life by the sea. A cacophony of sounds washes over my ears - hawkers in the midst of a transaction, families in energetic discussion, couples in huddled conversation. My nose too partakes in the experience, filled by the salty smell of the sea, the fishy odour from the moored boats selling balık-ekmek (a kind of grilled fish sandwich), and the fumes of gasoline coming from the ferries lining the busy pier.

{% include rimage.html images="DSCF5985 left, DSCF6544 right" %}

I get onto the ferry for just 12 lira, and make my way to the upper deck. Despite the harsh summer sun beating down on the back of my neck, it’s not uncomfortably hot, with the cool air rising off the waters providing welcome respite.

{% include rimage.html images="DSCF6448 one" %}

On one side, the towering minarets and grandiose domes of the Sultanahmet district – the Hagia Sophia, the Blue Mosque. On the other, the hills of Galata and Beyoğlu, red-roofed houses crowding narrow streets.

{% include rimage.html images="DSCF6210 one" %}

{% include rimage.html images="DSCF6128 one" %}

First, the ferry stops at Ortaköy, the pier lined with European-style cafés and flanked by a majestic mosque. I’m immediately reminded of the contrasts that make up this city of the world’s desire. The crossroads of East and West for millennia, the results of this great melting pot are everywhere, a unique blend of occident and orient, of antique and modern, of Asian and European.

The boat then chugs out of the narrow inlet we call the Golden Horn, and out into the Bosphorus proper. One end leads to the Sea of Marmara, and beyond, to the Mediterranean and eventually the world. The other points the way to the Black Sea – to the northern heartlands of Ukraine and Russia.

{% include rimage.html images="DSCF6547 one" %}

The strait bustles with traffic, and I watch as a large ship carrying containers marked Yang Ming steam under the Sultan Mehmet bridge. I think back to the fleets of container ships that are a familiar sight off the coast of Singapore, and marvel. Some of these containers must surely have passed through Singapore, and like me, found themselves halfway around the world from home. I was heading home the next day, but these containers would continue on their journey north, presumably to ports at which they would be unloaded and sent across Europe.

Above us, lines of trucks trundle slowly across the bridge, carrying their wares not from north to south, but east to west. In all directions, people and goods hurry over and across the channel.

{% include rimage.html images="DSCF6530 left, DSCF6013 right" %}

The rich history of this ancient city appears on either side of this modern bridge. A mosque on the shore, a stone tower further back. A medieval castle nestled amidst a forest. And in the distance, a fistful of skyscrapers, a reminder that for the long history that this city has had - Byzantium to Constantinople to Istanbul – and who knows what’s to come.

It’s not just us humans who inhabit the banks of this channel. I peer over the deck into the clear, blue waters, and watch the dark shadow of a school of fish darting about beneath. As the boat turns around, seabirds follow our crescent wake, swooping into the foamy waters trailing our engines, soaring above in the cloudless summer sky, catching pieces of bread thrown to them by passengers mid-air.

{% include rimage.html images="DSCF6517 one" %}

My thoughts are interrupted by a young boy selling drinks on the boat. Dondurma! Ice cream! Cold drinks! Kahve! I reach for my wallet – but ultimately decide against getting a coffee – I’d just had one a couple of hours before, and this stuff is strong. Disappointed, the boy disappears to the air-conditioned cabin below deck, leaving us tourists to brave the sun.

{% include rimage.html images="DSCF6689 left, DSCF6543 right" %}

We finally make it back to Eminönü. I’m surprised, but the waters here are teeming with jellyfish, roiling in the turbulent flows generated by our turbines. Ropes are thrown to the dock and pulled over large stands. We close the gap, and the engines stop. The water’s calm again, the jellyfish returning to their peaceful drift.

I step off the boat, back into the busy streets of Istanbul, a city which has been everything I thought it would be, and more; a city that’s full of action, full of love, full of life. The constant rustling and bustling and hustling goes on.

{% include rimage.html images="DSCF6101 full" %}